. . . . . . . . . . . . -- . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . "The Hunter's Wife" by Anthony Doerr . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . -- . . . . . . . . . . .

It was the hunter's first time outside Montana. 
He woke, stricken still with the hours-old 
vision of ascending through rose-lit cumulus, 
of houses and barns like specks deep in the 
snowed-in valleys, all the scrolling country 
below looking December-brown and black hills 
streaked with snow, flashes of iced-over lakes, 
the long braids of a river gleaming at the 
bottom of a canyon. Above the wing the sky had 
deepened to a blue so pure he knew it would 
bring tears to his eyes if he looked long enough.

Now it was dark. The airplane descended over 
Chicago, its galaxy of electric lights, the vast
neighborhoods coming clearer as the plane glided
toward the airport-streetlights, headlights, 
stacks of buildings, ice rinks, a truck turning
at a stoplight, scraps of snow atop a warehouse
and winking antennae on faraway hills, finally
the long converging parallels of blue runway 
lights, and they were down.

He walked into the airport, past the banks of
monitors. Already he felt as if he'd lost 
something, some beautiful perspective, some 
lovely dream fallen away. He had come to Chicago
to see his wife, whom he had not seen in twenty
years. She was there to perform her magic for a 
higher-up at the state university. Even 
universities, apparently, were interested in 
what she could do. Outside the terminal the sky 
was thick and gray and hurried by wind. Snow was
coming. A woman from the university met him and 
escorted him to her Jeep. He kept his gaze out 
the window.

