. . . . . . . . . . . . -- . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . LIKABLE by Deb Olin Unferth. . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . -- . . . . . . . . . . .

She could see she was becoming a thoroughly 
unlikable person. Each time she opened her mouth
she said something ugly, and whoever was nearby 
liked her a little less. These could be
strangers, these could be people she loved, or
people she knew only slightly whom she had hoped
would one day be her friends. Even if she didn't
say anything, even if all she did is seem a
certain way, have a look on her face, or make a
soft sound of reaction, it was always unlikable-
except in the few cases that she fixed herself
on being likable for the next four seconds
(more than that was impossible) and sometimes
that worked, but not always.

Why couldn't she be more likable? What was the
problem? Did she just not enjoy the world
anymore? Had the world gotten away from her?
Had the world gotten worse? (Maybe, probably
not. Or probably in some ways but not in the
ways that were making her not like it). Did she
not like herself? (Well, of course she didn't,
but there was nothing new in that.) 

Or had she become less likable simply by growing
older-so that she might be doing the same thing
she always did, but because she was now
forty-one, not twenty, it had become unlikable
because any woman doing something at forty-one
is more unlikable than a woman doing it at
twenty? And does she sense this? Does she know
she is intrinsically less likable and instead
of resisting, does she lean into it, as into a
cold wind? Maybe (likely) she used to resist,
but now she sees the futility, so each morning
when she opens her mouth she is unlikable,
proudly so, and each evening before sleep she is
unlikable, and each day it goes on this way, she
getting more unlikable by the hour, until one
morning she will be so unlikable, inconveniently
unlikable, that she will have to be shoved into
a hole and left there.
