. . . . . . . . . . . . -- . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . .Miracles by LUCY CORIN. . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . -- . . . . . . . . . . .

WE WATCHED OUR FATHER take the jar out to the 
patio on the day we had been waiting for since 
he put the spider into it with its egg sac. It 
was a black widow spider which we knew never to 
touch in the garden and to know by the red bow
on its belly. We'd been living in the country
since our stark raving mad mother started 
calling the apartment from her orbit. Our father
lay down near the jar, on his side. He was 
always showing us stuff around the farm. He was 
growing a beard, always tired and patient. There
was a barn with a horse in it we were taking 
Care of. He said a lot about learning to take 
care of others as a part of growing up, and we 
Watched him with eyes too big for our heads. We
Gathered around the jar and put our noses to it 
in turn, looking for the movement he said to 
look for in the egg sac, how you could see it 
was time by shadows crossing. We were getting a
little bored when the babies started to come 
out, just like he said. They were smaller than
anything, and the big mother spider, you 
couldn't tell if she was paying attention. The 
babies were spreading out over the inside of 
the jar, the miracle of life. They were making 
their ways to the air holes punched in the lid. 
Our father just watched and commented for our 
benefit. He put a stick to an air hole and we 
watched babies crawl up it. Spiders crawl their
whole lives. We watched, but some of our 
attention wandered. We were new to the 
countryside, new life surrounding us. I 
remember a lot of things from that place besides
this. After the apocalypse, a brother of mine 
said, "Do you remember if you were nervous with 
all those poison spiders radiating from the jar?
Do you remember that we didn't have any insect 
spray because we'd just moved out there but he 
had a can of hairspray and that's what he 
sprayed on them, just as they were getting away?
Why did we have hairspray? Was it hers?"
